---
title: "Current Measurement Instrument "
description: "Instrument Design for Measuring Current Spikes in Low-Noise, Mid-Band Frequency Range"
dateString: Januray 2019
draft: false
tags: ["Instrument Design", "Current Measurement", "Low-Noise", "Mid-Band Frequency", "Electromagnetic Fields", "IC Testing"]
showToc: false
weight: 302
cover:
    image: "projects/automated-image-captioning/cover1.jpeg"
--- 
## Description

Starkey, a renowned hearing aid company, recently conducted tests on their ICs in the **low-band** and **high-band** ranges. Due to the tight space of the electronics, the **current spikes** generated by the ICs create **electromagnetic (EM) fields** that affect the **magnetic sensor** in the device. To address this challenge, Starkey wants to **simulate** these EM fields and requires an **instrument** to measure the current spikes producing them.

### Project Scope:

- Designed an instrument capable of measuring current spikes with **low noise** in the **mid-band frequency range** of **0-100MHz**.
- Focused on a current measurement range of **200uA to 25mA** to capture a wide range of current spikes relevant to the testing requirements.
- Ensured the instrument provided precise and reliable measurements to support the simulation of EM fields and the evaluation of their impact on the magnetic sensor.

By successfully designing and developing this instrument, I enabled Starkey to conduct comprehensive testing and analysis of the current spikes and their associated EM fields. The instrument's ability to operate in the specified frequency range and measure current with low noise facilitated accurate simulations and informed further improvements in IC designs.

Throughout this project, I applied my expertise in **instrument design**, **current measurement techniques**, and **noise reduction** methodologies. Collaborating closely with the Starkey team, I delivered a reliable and efficient instrument that met their specific requirements and contributed to the advancement of their research and development efforts in hearing aid technology.
## Resources
- [Research Poster](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gf0Sf9YZoVMar0CRxUazeVbxB2o3FZvX/view?usp=sharing)
